[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
naga manchetti and charlie state
our headlines today are serving
metropolitan police officer
is charged with the kidnap and murder of
sarah everard
48 year old wayne cousins will appear in
court this morning
campaigners say they still hope of a
vigil in sarah's memory today despite a
knockback at the high court
the family of george floyd reaches a
multi-million dollar settlement with the
u.s city of minneapolis where he died at
the hands of police
last year good morning when in rome
wales aim to take a big step towards the
six nations grand slam today while
hoping england
do them a favor by beating france and
it's been pretty unsettled of late but
as we look towards the next couple of
days high pressure is building something
drier and something brighter on the
horizon
i'll be back with all the details
[Music]
good morning saturday the 13th of march
our top story this morning a
metropolitan police officer will appear
in court today
charged with the kidnap and murder of
sarah everard who went missing while
walking home
in south london 10 days ago wayne
cousins who's 48 was taken to hospital
yesterday for a second time in two days
to be treated for a fresh head injury
sustained in custody charlotte wright
has more
it is ten days since sarah everard
disappeared in south london
she was walking home today a serving
metropolitan
police officer 48 year old wayne cousins
will appear before magistrates charged
with her kidnap
and murder it follows a large-scale
police investigation spanning sites in
london
and kent woodland in ashford where her
body was discovered
and 30 miles away in deal where the
suspect lives
sarah's family of course have been
informed of this development
and remain supported by specialist
officers
i would like at this stage to pay
tribute to sarah's family for their
fortitude and forbearance
through what can only have been the most
intensely difficult few days
our thoughts remain with them as this
matter progresses
wayne cousins is part of the
parliamentary and diplomatic protection
unit
previously he'd guarded britain's
nuclear power stations
he'd also served in the territorial army
since his arrest he's been taken to
hospital on two separate occasions
after being found with head injuries
inside his cell
for many the disappearance of a woman
just walking home has galvanized the
demand for safer streets
the home office is now reopening a
public consultation
to help inform its strategy on tackling
violence against women and girls
due to be published in the summer the 33
year old's death has made headlines
across the world
but sarah's family and friends will
remember her life
we are very proud of her they said she
brought so much joy
to our lives charlotte wright bbc news
charlotte joins us now from clapham
common where there are plans for a vigil
to take place this evening although
charlotte morning there's still
uncertainty over whether this vigil can
proceed yes there is some uncertainty
at the moment naga morning i think this
the events of the past few days have
prompted a huge reaction and big
debate around that wider issue of
women's safety and i think that is why
so many people are keen to attend vigils
and hold
vigils not only in sarah's name of
course but also
in protest around the issue of women's
safety and the concerns that some women
have
around that of course the difficulty is
that we're in lockdown and so
public gatherings vigils aren't allowed
under the current rules and actually
anyone who organizes them could be faced
with a pretty hefty fine for organizing
them
now the group reclaim these streets want
to hold a vigil here on clapham common
near to where sarah was
last seen at six o'clock this evening
and they say
if they were blocked from doing that
that would infringe their human right
to protest now they took that argument
to the high court yesterday
and unfortunately for them the judge
didn't come down in their favor and
didn't say they could definitely go
ahead and hold this vigil
but what was interesting was that the
judge seemed to imply that they could
perhaps have a conversation with the met
police about exactly what to do next and
that
this procedure could be up for
discussion
i think the met police are pretty keen
for people to stay at home and follow
the lockdown restrictions
but the organisers of this vigil tonight
and other vigils across the country
are keen that they can continue
discussions with the met and hope that
they could hold some sort of event
here this evening at six o'clock
charlotte thanks very much charlotte
right there
the american city of minneapolis has
reached a 27 million dollar settlement
with the family of george floyd
the black man whose death last may at
the hands of police officers spark
protests
around the world it comes as
demonstrators take to the streets to
mark one year since brianna taylor
a 26 year old black woman was shot dead
by police at her home
our north america correspondent larry
madoa joins us
now from briana's memorial in louisville
uh larry this uh today a very
significant day for both families
biannual taylor and george floyd
that's correct charlie the 27 million
dollar settlement that the family of
george floyd in minneapolis will receive
is the single largest pre-trial
settlement
in a civil rights case in american
history and it was announced on the eve
of the first anniversary of the death of
bruno taylor an opportunity for the
family to bring
national attention back to her case a
year of calling for people to say her
name
and asking for justice they think that
she did not receive justice even though
both families are represented by the
attorney ben crump
both families have received a settlement
last year brennan taylor's family
received 12 million dollars from the
city of
louisville but george floyd the video
of his death shocked the nation and the
world a police officer
kneeling on his neck for eight minutes
46 seconds
it reignited the black lives matter
movement here in the u.s and around the
world
and it brought a spotlight to
the fraud relationship between black
america and policing
and the need for reforms and today the
lawyers for george floyd is saying it
shows that black lives
indeed do matter but this is a personal
payment
to his family what is needed is
reforms nationally to make sure that a
case like this does not happen
for the people who have been saying his
name around the country and around the
world
they feel there's a lot more to do and
that national reckoning with the race
has happened
but the family they are grateful for
this settlement
but they think it could all go away if
they could have george flown back this
is his brother
reacting to that settlement i thank the
state of minnesota
for getting this settlement taken care
of
but even though
my brother is not here
he's here with me in my heart
because if i could get him back
i will give all of this back
and this is the quirk of american law
that settlement of 27 million dollars is
coming from the taxpayers in minneapolis
the same with the 12 million dollars
that came from the taxpayers
here in louisville today it will be a
rally
here at jefferson square park in the
middle of louisville in kentucky where a
memorial has come up
a way to honor the memory of brianna
taylor her mother tamika palmer says she
did not receive justice
and the police officers who shot her
daughter were not charged there was no
criminal charges
the only officer who's facing a criminal
charge
is for wanton endangerment essentially
for shooting into the homes of bruno
taylor's neighbors
and that she feels is an injustice that
needs to be corrected
she wants the state of kentucky to do
more to appoint a special prosecutor
to introduce a murder charge against
those officers two other officers who
were there that night in what is this
called a no knock warrant
were fired but they were not charged
here in the city of louisville they have
passed what is called
brianna's law but not in the whole state
brenna's law essentially
bans police from coming into your home
without announcing themselves and what
is that's what led to this tragedy
larry thank you very much
wales has started to ease its lockdown
from today up to four adults from two
households are now allowed to meet up
outside
including in private gardens so more
detail on that outdoor sports such as
golf tennis and basketball will also be
able to resume and care home residents
can welcome
one designated visitor indoors
the duchess of sussex has made a
complaint to the broadcasting regulator
ofcom
about the broadcaster piers morgan the
presenter resigned from itv's good
morning britain earlier this week after
saying he didn't believe
a word the duchess said in her interview
with oprah winfrey
the doctor spoke about having suicidal
thoughts and said she received no
support from the royal family
time now is nine minutes past six one
picture story for you this morning from
chester
zoo have a look at this it is the birth
of a rare kind of giraffe its calf
doesn't yet have a name
i was born to mum allah this is on the
3rd of march
and you're wondering of course at just a
few days old how tall
is the giraffe well six foot tall
to business baby it's a big baby hey
it's a big baby
the rothschilds giraffes are highly
threatened in the wild
their numbers have halved in recent
years
rather lovely no name yet then just
checking the world out yeah
as you do keep going
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news